disable audit logging to db by default (#51686)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: CHANGELOG.md

- Added the ability to block auto-indexing scheduling and inference via the `codeintel_autoindexing_exceptions` Postgres table. [#51578](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51578)
- When an admin has configured rollout windows for Batch Changes changesets, the configuration details are now visible to all users on the Batch Changes settings page. [#50479](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/50479)
- Added support for regular expressions in`exclude` repositories for GitLab code host connections. [#51862](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51862)

> - Security event logs no longer write to database by default - instead, they will be written in the [audit log format](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/audit_log) to console. There is a new site config setting `log.securityEventLogs` that can be used to configure security event logs to write to database if the old behaviour is desired. This new default will significantly improve performance for large instances. In addition, the old environment variable `SRC_DISABLE_LOG_PRIVATE_REPO_ACCESS` no longer does anything. [#51686](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51686)

Reviewer: nit - can this just replace the entry in Changed? i.e. just move this whole thing down

  instead of the security_events table. This should improve performance for large instances [#51686](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51686)

### Changed

- Access tokens now begin with the prefix `sgp_` to make them identifiable as secrets. You can also prepend `sgp_` to previously generated access tokens, although they will continue to work as-is without that prefix.
- The commit message defined in a batch spec will now be quoted when git is invoked, i.e. `git commit -m "commit message"`, to improve how the message is interpreted by the shell in certain edge cases, such as when the commit message begins with a dash. This may mean that previous escaping strategies will behave differently.
- 429 errors from external services Sourcegraph talks to are only retried automatically if the Retry-After header doesn't indicate that a retry would be useless. The time grace period can be configured using `SRC_HTTP_CLI_EXTERNAL_RETRY_AFTER_MAX_DURATION` and `SRC_HTTP_CLI_INTERNAL_RETRY_AFTER_MAX_DURATION`. [#51743](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51743)
- Security Event are NO LONGER logged to the database by default, they are logged

>   to stdout as audit logs instead. This is a performance improvement for large instances. [#51686](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51686)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to stdout as [audit logs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/audit_log) instead. This is a performance improvement for large instances. [#51686](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51686)
```

- Added the ability to block auto-indexing scheduling and inference via the `codeintel_autoindexing_exceptions` Postgres table. [#51578](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51578)
- When an admin has configured rollout windows for Batch Changes changesets, the configuration details are now visible to all users on the Batch Changes settings page. [#50479](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/50479)
- Added support for regular expressions in`exclude` repositories for GitLab code host connections. [#51862](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51862)

> - There is a new site config setting `log.securityEventLogs` that can be used to configure security event logs to go to stdout in the audit log format
>   instead of the security_events table. This should improve performance for large instances [#51686](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51686)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Security event logs no longer write to database by default - instead, they will be written in the [audit log format](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/audit_log) to console. There is a new site config setting `log.securityEventLogs` that can be used to configure security event logs to write to database if the old behaviour is desired. This new default will significantly improve performance for large instances. In addition, the old environment variable `SRC_DISABLE_LOG_PRIVATE_REPO_ACCESS` no longer does anything. [#51686](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51686)
```

Also, because this is a breaking change, it should go under `Changed` below.

Reviewer: also cc @sourcegraph/security for final explicit thumbs-up on this change of defaults

Reviewer: we probably need to figure out if any customers actively depend on security event logs in DB, e.g. to export to their own data stores

Author: I don't think there is any way we can reasonably determine this. Ultimately, it would be on them to notice the change and make the necessary modifications to re-enable logging to the db.

- Access tokens now begin with the prefix `sgp_` to make them identifiable as secrets. You can also prepend `sgp_` to previously generated access tokens, although they will continue to work as-is without that prefix.
- The commit message defined in a batch spec will now be quoted when git is invoked, i.e. `git commit -m "commit message"`, to improve how the message is interpreted by the shell in certain edge cases, such as when the commit message begins with a dash. This may mean that previous escaping strategies will behave differently.
- 429 errors from external services Sourcegraph talks to are only retried automatically if the Retry-After header doesn't indicate that a retry would be useless. The time grace period can be configured using `SRC_HTTP_CLI_EXTERNAL_RETRY_AFTER_MAX_DURATION` and `SRC_HTTP_CLI_INTERNAL_RETRY_AFTER_MAX_DURATION`. [#51743](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51743)

> - Security Events NO LONGER write to database by default - instead, they will be written in the [audit log format](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/audit_log) to console. There is a new site config setting `log.securityEventLogs` that can be used to configure security event logs to write to database if the old behaviour is desired. This new default will significantly improve performance for large instances. In addition, the old environment variable `SRC_DISABLE_LOG_PRIVATE_REPO_ACCESS` no longer does anything. [#51686](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/51686)

Author: This should be `log.securityEventLog` not `log.securityEventLogs`
